We can save data to mongodb and we can fetch data from it,
now it's time for a new route
and that should be a delete route.
So in that nodejs code in the app.js file, I'll add a new route for the
delete http verb
with app delete for a request that reaches API posts and now here we actually need to encode a new piece
of information into the url
because for delete requests, you send the ID or some identifier of the thing you want to delete as part
of the url,
you don't send a request body here.
So that part is encoded as a dynamic segment because of course I can say delete requests to API posts
and this will delete a resource with that ID because I can't define routes for all possible IDs
we might have,
instead we'll add a dynamic path segment by adding a colon and then any name of your choice, like ID
and this will be extracted by express,
you will be able to access an id property then and this will be dynamically passed ID. So we send the request
to API, posts and then some ID and here on the backend, we will be able to get that some ID value from
that ID property.
Now how does that work?
Let's pass that second function here which is triggered for every incoming request and let me there simply
console log request params,
that is a property managed by nodejs or by express to be precise which gives you access to all encoded parameters
and we only have one ID,
so here we can access params ID and for now let's simply send back the status code 200
json response where we send back a message, post
deleted,
something like that.
With that added, we get our delete route,
now let's connect angular to that, on the angular app we already have our delete button here,
now it's not doing anything yet,
time to change that,
time to add a click listener to that delete button and delete a post.
Now for that, I'll call onDelete, a method
I have yet to add and we want to pass information to that method,
the information should be which post to delete.
Now since we're looping through all the posts here, we got post information and that post actually is based
on our post model and therefore we have access to the ID which is the ID coming from the database, right,
that is that transformation we added here, so we got the ID from our database
therefore we can delete the post. So we can simply pass post ID to our onDelete method,
now of course the onDelete method is missing,
so time to add that, onDelete.
Here I know I'll get a post ID which is of type string because we actually get back that ID in string
form and now we just have to call something in our service which sends that delete request.
Now for that, I'll add a new method here,
delete post,
I expect to get my post ID string here too
and now in there, we can again use the angular http client to send a delete request, to well basically
the same url as before,
so let's wrap that url here,
API posts
but now we add one extra segment here and that extra segment will be our post ID and that's that dynamic
parameter,
it will be part of url and we can pull it out of there or from there
with that dynamic segment parameter on the backend. So now we send that request,
now again we need to subscribe for this request to actually be sent
and there I will simply console log
deleted.
Now let's save all that
and let's see if it works. Let's go back to the frontend and hit delete here,
now I don't see deleted here and on the backend, I also don't see anything because I probably should
use that delete post method I added in the service in our component here to reach out to this posts service
and call delete
post here and pass on the post ID.
Now side note, we will not update the array on the frontend yet,
so we will actually delete it and still see the post on the frontend
but now it should at least send that request.
So let's give that another try,
delete and we see deleted.
Now if we go back, we see that output and this is actually the parameter we fetched from our backend
here,
so from our url.
Now I said we won't update the array on the frontend, that's true
but we also of course don't delete anything on the backend yet, so that's missing.
So what we can do now is we saw that we can get access to that ID we passed as an argument,
we can now use that to delete an entry in the database and we can again do that through that post model
which we created with mongoose.
Now if we check the official mongoose documentation for deleting items, we can go to queries because
deleting something also is a query but we actually should go to the query API documentation to get a
full overview of of all the methods we can call and there if we go up, we actually see delete one
and here we can specify which entry should be deleted. So we can call post delete one, pass a javascript
object to narrow down what should be deleted and the thing we're looking for is an entry which has
an _id because remember the ID is saved with an underscore in front of its name, so or that ID
field name has underscore at the beginning
in mongodb, so _id should be request params ID.
Let's then add a then block to see if that succeeded
and here we will get the result of that operation
and for now, I will simply console log that result here and then also send my response.
Now if we save that, let's go back to the angular app and click that delete button again.
Now we see on the backend, something happened,
we got a result here and now if we try reloading the app on angular side, no posts added yet because now
we can't fetch that post any more because it was indeed deleted from our backend database.
So deleting now also works as you can see through the delete one operation where we specify which entry
with which ID should be deleted and the ID is received as part of the url.